README.md, before:


<!-- force push by editing this number: 48 -->
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
<!-- Build with devtools::build_readme() -->

# One Health VBD Hub (ohvbd) <a href="https://fwimp.github.io/ohvbd/"><img src="man/figures/logo-2.png" align="right" width="120" alt="ohvbd website" /></a>

<!-- # One Health VBD Hub - R Package -->
<!-- badges: start -->

[![R](https://img.shields.io/badge/R%3E%3D-4.0-6666ff.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://cran.r-project.org/)
[![packageversion](https://img.shields.io/badge/Package%20version-0.4.1-orange.svg?style=for-the-badge)](commits/master)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPL--3-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/fwimp/ohvbd/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/fwimp/ohvbd/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
<!-- badges: end -->

## Introduction

`ohvbd` is an R package for retrieving (and parsing) data from a network
of disease vector data sources.

At present this package is very much in its early stages, as such the
internal API may change without warning.

## Databases

`ohvbd` allows for searching and the retrieval of data from the
following data sources:

- [VecTraits](https://vectorbyte.crc.nd.edu/vectraits-explorer)
- [VecDyn](https://vectorbyte.crc.nd.edu/vecdyn-datasets)
- [AreaData](https://pearselab.github.io/areadata/)

## Installation

You can install the development version of ohvbd from
[GitHub](https://github.com/fwimp/ohvbd) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("fwimp/ohvbd", build_vignettes = TRUE)
```

## Latest patch notes

<!-- These are auto-pulled from NEWS.md  -->

### ohvbd 0.4.1

- New parallel downloading options for `get_x()` and `get_extract_x()`
  functions.
- These are to be used with caution, as they put significantly more load
  on the server than a sequential run would.
- New argument `check_src` allows for toggling of id-sanity checking for
  most functions.
- `retrieving-data` vignette now contains instructions for the use of
  `search_x_smart()`.

See [changelog](https://fwimp.github.io/ohvbd/news/index.html) for patch
notes for previous versions.

Commit message:

Add warning to set_ohvbd_compat() and minimise usage in vignettes

README.md, after:


<!-- force push by editing this number: 47 -->
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
<!-- Build with devtools::build_readme() -->

# One Health VBD Hub (ohvbd) <a href="https://fwimp.github.io/ohvbd/"><img src="man/figures/logo-3.png" align="right" width="120" alt="ohvbd website" /></a>

<!-- # One Health VBD Hub - R Package -->
<!-- badges: start -->

[![R](https://img.shields.io/badge/R%3E%3D-4.0-6666ff.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://cran.r-project.org/)
[![packageversion](https://img.shields.io/badge/Package%20version-0.4.2-orange.svg?style=for-the-badge)](commits/master)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPL--3-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/fwimp/ohvbd/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/fwimp/ohvbd/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
<!-- badges: end -->

## Introduction

`ohvbd` is an R package for retrieving (and parsing) data from a network
of disease vector data sources.

At present this package is very much in its early stages, as such the
internal API may change without warning.

## Databases

`ohvbd` allows for searching and the retrieval of data from the
following data sources:

- [VecTraits](https://vectorbyte.crc.nd.edu/vectraits-explorer)
- [VecDyn](https://vectorbyte.crc.nd.edu/vecdyn-datasets)
- [AreaData](https://pearselab.github.io/areadata/)

## Installation

You can install the development version of ohvbd from
[GitHub](https://github.com/fwimp/ohvbd) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("fwimp/ohvbd", build_vignettes = TRUE)
```

## Latest patch notes

<!-- These are auto-pulled from NEWS.md  -->

### ohvbd 0.4.2

- `set_ohvbd_compat()` now asks for user confirmation in interactive
  mode. This makes running on linux a little annoying, but is worth it
  due to the seriousness of disabling SSL identity verification.
- This is not asked if the R session is running in batch mode, under
  knittr, or under testthat.
- `retrieving-data` vignette now only enables compatibility mode if
  running under linux. Generally it is best to keep package usage of
  `set_ohvbd_compat()` to an *absolute minimum*.
- Copyright holder now listed in DESCRIPTION

See [changelog](https://fwimp.github.io/ohvbd/news/index.html) for patch
notes for previous versions.
