reference/assoc_ad.md, before:

# Associate other data sources with AREAdata data

Intelligently bind together data from AREAdata and other sources at a
given spatial scale.

## Usage

``` r
assoc_ad(
  data,
  areadata,
  targetdate = NA,
  enddate = NA,
  gid = 0,
  lonlat_names = c("Longitude", "Latitude"),
  basereq = NA
)
```

## Arguments

- data:

  the source data to bind AREAdata to. This **must** contain decimal
  lonlat data!

- areadata:

  the AREAdata to bind, usually from
  [`fetch_ad()`](https://ohvbd.vbdhub.org/reference/fetch_ad.md).

- targetdate:

  **ONE OF** the following:

  - The date to search for in ISO 8601 (e.g. "2020", "2021-09", or
    "2022-09-21").

  - The start date for a range of dates.

  - A character vector of fully specified dates to search for (i.e.
    "yyyy-mm-dd").

- enddate:

  The (exclusive) end of the range of dates to search for. If this is
  unfilled, only the `targetdate` is searched for.

- gid:

  the spatial scale to retrieve (0 = country-level,
  1=province-level...).

- lonlat_names:

  a vector containing the column names of the longitude and latitude
  columns **IN THAT ORDER**!

- basereq:

  the url of the AREAdata database (usually generated by
  [`ad_basereq()`](https://ohvbd.vbdhub.org/reference/ad_basereq.md)).
  If `NA`, uses the default.

## Value

A matrix of the `data` with added columns extracted from `areadata`.

## Date ranges

The date range is a partially open interval. That is to say the lower
bound (`targetdate`) is inclusive, but the upper bound (`enddate`) is
exclusive.

For example a date range of "2020-08-04" - "2020-08-12" will return the
7 days from the 4th through to the 11th of August, but *not* the 12th.

## Date inference

In cases where a full date is not provided, the earliest date possible
with the available data is chosen.

So "2020-04" will internally become "2020-04-01".

If an incomplete date is specified as the `targetdate` and no `enddate`
is specified, the range to search is inferred from the minimum temporal
scale provided in `targetdate`.

For example "2020-04" will be taken to mean the month of April in 2020,
and the `enddate` will internally be set to "2020-05-01".

## Author

Francis Windram

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # interactive()
vtdf <- search_hub("Aedes aegypti", "vt") |>
  tail(20) |>
  fetch() |>
  glean(cols = c(
    "DatasetID",
    "Latitude",
    "Longitude",
    "Interactor1Genus",
    "Interactor1Species"
    ), returnunique = TRUE)
areadata <- fetch_ad(metric="temp", gid=2, use_cache=TRUE)
ad_extract_working <- assoc_ad(vtdf, areadata,
                                    targetdate = c("2021-08-04"), enddate=c("2021-08-06"),
                                    gid=2, lonlat_names = c("Longitude", "Latitude"))
}
```

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ fwimp/ohvbd@1b778a454e25b0cb304adcb32a854605752c751d 🚀

reference/assoc_ad.md, after:

# Associate other data sources with AREAdata data

Intelligently bind together data from AREAdata and other sources at a
given spatial scale.

## Usage

``` r
assoc_ad(
  data,
  areadata,
  targetdate = NA,
  enddate = NA,
  gid = 0,
  lonlat_names = c("Longitude", "Latitude"),
  cache_location = NULL,
  basereq = NA
)
```

## Arguments

- data:

  the source data to bind AREAdata to. This **must** contain decimal
  lonlat data!

- areadata:

  the AREAdata to bind, usually from
  [`fetch_ad()`](https://ohvbd.vbdhub.org/reference/fetch_ad.md).

- targetdate:

  **ONE OF** the following:

  - The date to search for in ISO 8601 (e.g. "2020", "2021-09", or
    "2022-09-21").

  - The start date for a range of dates.

  - A character vector of fully specified dates to search for (i.e.
    "yyyy-mm-dd").

- enddate:

  The (exclusive) end of the range of dates to search for. If this is
  unfilled, only the `targetdate` is searched for.

- gid:

  the spatial scale to retrieve (0 = country-level,
  1=province-level...). (Note: this will preferentially use the gid
  level of `areadata` if present.)

- lonlat_names:

  a vector containing the column names of the longitude and latitude
  columns **IN THAT ORDER**!

- cache_location:

  path to cache location (defaults to user directory obtained from
  [`tools::R_user_dir()`](https://rdrr.io/r/tools/userdir.html)).

- basereq:

  the url of the AREAdata database (usually generated by
  [`ad_basereq()`](https://ohvbd.vbdhub.org/reference/ad_basereq.md)).
  If `NA`, uses the default.

## Value

A matrix of the `data` with added columns extracted from `areadata`.

## Date ranges

The date range is a partially open interval. That is to say the lower
bound (`targetdate`) is inclusive, but the upper bound (`enddate`) is
exclusive.

For example a date range of "2020-08-04" - "2020-08-12" will return the
7 days from the 4th through to the 11th of August, but *not* the 12th.

## Date inference

In cases where a full date is not provided, the earliest date possible
with the available data is chosen.

So "2020-04" will internally become "2020-04-01".

If an incomplete date is specified as the `targetdate` and no `enddate`
is specified, the range to search is inferred from the minimum temporal
scale provided in `targetdate`.

For example "2020-04" will be taken to mean the month of April in 2020,
and the `enddate` will internally be set to "2020-05-01".

## Author

Francis Windram

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # interactive()
vtdf <- search_hub("Aedes aegypti", "vt") |>
  tail(20) |>
  fetch() |>
  glean(cols = c(
    "DatasetID",
    "Latitude",
    "Longitude",
    "Interactor1Genus",
    "Interactor1Species"
    ), returnunique = TRUE)
areadata <- fetch_ad(metric="temp", gid=2, use_cache=TRUE)
ad_extract_working <- assoc_ad(vtdf, areadata,
                                    targetdate = c("2021-08-04"), enddate=c("2021-08-06"),
                                    gid=2, lonlat_names = c("Longitude", "Latitude"))
}
```
