reference/fetch_gadm_sfs.md, before:

# Fetch gadm mapping shapefiles

Retrieve AREAdata gadm mapping shapefiles specified by spatial scale
(GID). These vectors are cached as GeoPackage files.

## Usage

``` r
fetch_gadm_sfs(
  gid = 0,
  cache_location = NULL,
  refresh_cache = FALSE,
  basereq = ad_basereq()
)
```

## Arguments

- gid:

  the spatial scale to retrieve (0 = country-level,
  1=province-level...).

- cache_location:

  path to cache location (defaults to user directory obtained from
  [`tools::R_user_dir()`](https://rdrr.io/r/tools/userdir.html)).

- refresh_cache:

  force a refresh of the relevant cached data.

- basereq:

  the url of the AREAdata database (usually generated by
  [`ad_basereq()`](https://ohvbd.vbdhub.org/reference/ad_basereq.md)).
  If `NA`, uses the default.

## Value

A SpatVector (from
[`terra::vect()`](https://rspatial.github.io/terra/reference/vect.html))
of the requested shapefile.

## Author

Francis Windram

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # interactive()
fetch_gadm_sfs(gid=0)
}
```

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ fwimp/ohvbd@73f9d4e4bc4a8fe1cbb9110d37a6ddb8453bc18f 🚀

reference/fetch_gadm_sfs.md, after:

# Fetch gadm mapping shapefiles

Retrieve AREAdata gadm mapping shapefiles specified by spatial scale
(GID). These vectors are cached as GeoPackage files.

## Usage

``` r
fetch_gadm_sfs(
  gid = 0,
  cache_location = NULL,
  refresh_cache = FALSE,
  basereq = ad_basereq(),
  call = rlang::caller_env()
)
```

## Arguments

- gid:

  the spatial scale to retrieve (0 = country-level,
  1=province-level...).

- cache_location:

  path to cache location (defaults to user directory obtained from
  [`tools::R_user_dir()`](https://rdrr.io/r/tools/userdir.html)).

- refresh_cache:

  force a refresh of the relevant cached data.

- basereq:

  the url of the AREAdata database (usually generated by
  [`ad_basereq()`](https://ohvbd.vbdhub.org/reference/ad_basereq.md)).
  If `NA`, uses the default.

- call:

  The env from which this was called (defaults to the direct calling
  environment).

## Value

A SpatVector (from
[`terra::vect()`](https://rspatial.github.io/terra/reference/vect.html))
of the requested shapefile.

## Author

Francis Windram

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # interactive()
fetch_gadm_sfs(gid=0)
}
```
